Unfortunately we don't have
access to a real space shuttle or
a commercial air craft.
So we need to somehow replicate
the system on a PC and a software.
The point of this course
to let you be creative.
We will not force you to make the project
in a certain way, as long as it
follows some general guidelines and,
of course, as long as it works.
This means it's a true engineering task
from design to implementation and test.
In this course,
you would use free software to
build the embedded platform for
wrong way detection and in this lecture
we will teach you how to use the tool.
Initially, you are provided with parts
of the algorithms using various parts of
wrong way detection systems.
And your task is to modify these
algorithms to fit the system you are about
to use, integrate algorithms so
that all parts of the system are able to
communicate and possibly integrate some
new algorithms if deemed necessary.
For implementing the wrong
way detection system,
we recommend you to use
Microsoft Visual Studio Express.
However, you are allowed to use
other tools such as Eclipse,
as long as you make the system work but
the guidelines we give you in this
lecture is based on Visual Studio.
First, download the project
template called wrong way
detection project from the course webpage.
Extract the files on your computer and
you should see a folder
called FreeRTOS_v9.0.1 and
this is the project folder.
Navigate with your windows
explorer to the patch list and
open the file WIN32.vcxpoj.
It should now start your Visual Studio and
import the project there.
Recall that this is the same pre artists
environment as you were using in
the course,
the development of real-time systems.
So, it should be a little bit familiar.
The left panel in the studio
contains all the files that
are currently used in the project.
Click on main.c, go to the main
function of the template project.
And in case you need to add more
files to the project, simply drag and
drop the files into the Solution Explorer
and it will be added to the project.
Note that only the source
files must be added,
other files can be included without
being added to the Solution Explorer.
Next, go to the main
function in the main.c and
familiarize yourself with
the code in this function.
The template contains currently only
a dummy task called myTask, and
this task is being
scheduled by the scheduler.
Next, click the play icon in the upper
middle part of the Visual Studio to build
and run the project.
This will take a while as the studio
is compiling the source files.
And when this is done you
should get a console window
with a dummy task
printing out hello world.
Okay, so you have Visual Studio up and
running.
The next thing to do is
to add an algorithm for
detecting the edges in a video frame.
The basic algorithm is provided to you
on the course page in the file canny.c.
This file contains an algorithm
which reads a bitmap image and
detects the edges.
The algorithm determines
the edges as points
in a frame where the brightness
changes sharply and
a collection of points for a line
that can be visually seen as an edge.
The picture shows an example of
detecting edges in an image.
And you can see that the filtered
image contains only black and
white pixels where the white
pixels are the edges in the image.
The implementation is
based on Canny filter
which contains five steps
to recognize the edges.
Apply Gaussian filter to smooth the image
and reduce the impact of noise components.
Detect in which direction the edge is
pointing by taking the blur in vertical,
horizontal, and diagonal direction by
calculating the first order derivative
of the pixel line in each direction.
After these gradients are calculated,
the edges are still blurry so
a non-maximum suppression is applied
to team the edge by comparing
the edge strength of the pixel
to its all neighbors.
If a pixel is the strongest,
the neighbors will be suppressed.
After these, some pixels are still
affected by color and noise variation so
edge pixels with a weak gradient
values are filtered out and
edge pixels with high
gradient value are preserved.
All edge pixels that
are still defined as weak,
are checked according to
their edge neighbors.
If a weak pixel is connected to a strong
pixel, the big pixel is preserved.
More detailed information about Canny
filter is available on its wiki page.
After edge detection,
you also need to encrypt the output of
the algorithm before sending to the cloud.
We have provided a C-code for
RSA algorithm in RSA.C file.
We introduced and discussed about
RSA algorithm in more detail
in the course web connectivity and
security in embedded systems.
The algorithm contains of three parts.
The first part of the code
calculates the public and
private keys using predetermined
prime numbers p and q.
You can set any prime numbers for p and
q in the code but remember if you choose
very large prime numbers the algorithm
will run slow to calculate the keys.
In the second part of the code, the
encryption function encrypts the message.
In our case, the output of
the edge detection algorithm will
be an array of integers
with values of 0 or 255.
In a third part, the decryption
function decrypts the message and
outputs the edge detection data.
You need to use your own creativity to
utilize these codes in your program
wherever it is needed.
Your task is now to connect these
algorithms by using freeRTOS.
So if you are giving some images or
runways and
the edge detection and
integration algorithm.
What you do is to create a freeRTOS
task for edge detection and
you read this file into the path.
Next ,you implement the encryption task
containing the encryption algorithm.
Now you need some way to transmit
the filtered image frame
to the encryption task.
We recommend you here to use
FreeRTOS Queue to reach you and
send a frame by the Edge detection task.
Now you can receive a frame
by the Encryption task.
Finally, your job is to send
the encrypted frame to the cloud server.
To do this, you need to forward
the frame to a TCP client.
We recommend you to implement the TCP
client as a FreeRTOS task, to which
you can again connect a freeRTOS Queue and
you transmit the data over this queue.
From this point,
all you need to do is to transmit
the encrypted frame to the cloud server.
In this server you must implement
a task which is capable of reading,
decrypting and
storing the transmitted frame.
In conclusion your job is to
put three pieces together,
edge detection, encryption and
network transmission.
In another lecture we will go more into
detail about the implementation itself